# Bye-Laws

Source: https://studentsunionucl.org/sites/default/files/2026-08/Students%27%20Union%20UCL%20-%20Bye-Laws%20-%20July%202026.pdf
Version: 16 July 2026

Students’ Union UCL Bye - Law s Bye - Law 1 - General Bye - Law 2 - Membership Bye - Law 3 - Student Networks Bye - Law 4 - Union Executive and Policy Zones Bye - Law 5 - Referenda Bye - Law 6 - Union Policy Bye - Law 7 - Union Officers Bye - Law 8 - Accountability of Officers Bye - Law 9 - Elections Bye - Law 1 0 - Staffing Bye - Law 1 1 - Complaints Procedure for Members Bye - Law 1 2 - Disciplinary Procedure 16 July 202 6

Bye - Law 1 - General 1 . The Union is a company limited by guarantee. 2.   Words and phrases used in these Bye - Laws have the meanings as ascribed to them in the Memorandum & Articles of the Union. 3.   The Memorandum & Articles shall take precedence over these Bye - Laws and these Bye - Laws shall not be interpreted or applied in any way that is inconsistent with the Memorandum & Articles. 4.   In the case of confusion or contradiction in these Bye - Laws, the Board of Trustees shall have power to interpret their wording. 5.   These Bye - Laws may be amended by the Union Executive, in accordance with the relevant sections in these Bye - Laws, via a special resolution with a 75% majority vote of Union Executive members in attendance . 6.   The Union is fully committed to equal opportunities and will strive to ensure that no Member or member of staff is subject to discrimination in any form. All Officers should strive to ensure equal opportunities within their remit. All meetings must be accessible to all Members; that includes venues, digital platforms and papers. 7.   The Union may affiliate to any external organisation provided that such affiliations do not violate relevant law or the Memorandum & Articles or Bye - Laws. All affiliations shall be posted on the website, approved by the Trustee Board. 8.   The Union shall publish an annual impact report which will be submitted to UCL Council before its last meeting of the session.
9. The Union shall observe the UCL Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech.

Bye - Law 2 - Membership
1. All UCL students are automatically Members of the Union unless they opt out.
2. Regulations of Membership shall be as stated in the Memorandum & Articles.
3. Associate membership of the Union shall be open to all members of UCL staff (including honorary members of the academic staff), Union staff, Fellows of UCL, past students of UCL and those who are employed by UCL upon payment of the relevant membership fee, as laid down by Union Executive.
4. Associate membership of the Union may be granted to those UCL students on a ‘disruption of studies’ who are considered to have extenuating circumstances.
5. Honorary Life Membership of the Union may be granted by ratification of Union Executive following approval by the relevant award panel.
6. V isiting membership of the Union may be granted to members of Students' Unions in other Colleges or Universities for a period not exceeding twelve months, upon payment of a membership fee as laid down by Union Executive. Visiting membership application must be recommended by either a Union club/society or a Union staff member . Applications can be considered by the Activities & Engagement Officer on behalf of Union Executive.
7. Honorary Life Members, Visiting and Associate members are not granted full membership rights and therefore cannot take part in the democratic procedures of the Union such as voting in Union elections or hold elected office.
8. Students may opt out of their Membership of the Union. Students that opt out of their Membership are not able to take part in the democratic processes of the Union including in its Clubs & Societies, but retain their right to access facilities, the Union A dvice Service as well as Clubs & Societies.

Bye - Law 3 - Student Networks
1. Student Networks
a. Student Networks shall exist to enable their members to self - organise in order to lead efforts to:
i. challenge and change discrimination, oppression and inequality that they face.
ii. defend and extend their rights.
iii. represent and further their particular concerns, needs and interests within the Union, UCL and beyond.
iv. ensure that the Union's actions do not unfairly exclude, neglect or discriminate against them.
v. promote and facilitate social intercourse and cooperation amongst themselves.
b. The Equity & Inclusion Officer shall be the assisting Sabbatical Officer for each Student Network.
c. The Student Networks shall be:
i. The Women's Network
1. the Women’s Network is open to all who self - define as women, including (if they wish) those with complex gender identities which include ‘woman’, and those who experience oppression as women.
2. the Convenor shall be the Women's Officer.
ii. The People of Colour (POC) Students' Network
1. the members shall self - define as black and/or minority ethnic.
2. the Convenor shall be the People of Colour (POC) Students' Officer.
iii. The Disabled Students' Network
1. the members shall self - define as disabled. This shall include non - visible disabilities.
2. the Convenor shall be the Disabled Students' Officer.
iv. The LGBT+ Students' Network
1. the members shall self - define as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans* and/or any other gender/sexual/romantic minority including but not limited to Asexual spectrum, Aromantic spectrum, Queer and Intersex.
2. the Co - Convenors shall be the LGBQ+ Officer and the Trans Officer.
v. The Research Students’ Network

1. the members shall be any Postgraduate Research student.
2. the Convenor shall be the Research Students’ Officer.
vi. The Mature, Part - Time and Carers’ Students’ Network
1. the members shall be any mature, part - time or student with caring responsibilities.
2. the Convenor shall be the Mature, Part - Time and Carers’ Students’ Officer.
vii. The International Students’ Network
1. the members shall be any student whose ho